The idea of software companies value
lying in being a scapegoat essentially
for when things go wrong is uh kind of
funny and dystopian I think in many
ways.
>> Yeah. I mean I think you know it's a
real fear right and the way I think
about it is there are two arguments
against software right now. One is the
world is going to stay the same but
software is just going to get a lot
cheaper over time now that it's cheaper
to build. And I think there's no one who
would argue that it's not gotten
dramatically cheaper to build for
reasons that we laid out in our deck and
we can talk through it more. We don't
buy that argument. Um I don't buy that
argument. But the second is the world's
about to get really weird and the way
that knowledge work happens is going to
change and if we think out three, four,
five years, who knows if there will even
be customer support reps or sales reps
or software engineers. And I think
that's what's causing the kind of hit to
the share prices lately.
Hello and welcome to another episode of
the OddLots podcast. I'm Joe Weisenthal
>> and I'm Tracy Aloway.
>> Tracy, we're recording this February
11th and uh IGV, the software ETF down
another 3% today.
>> It has been ugly in software. Everyone's
throwing around the term SAS apocalypse.
>> SAS.
>> I mean, the great thing about SAS is
there are a lot of things that like
rhyme with it, a lot of homonyms. So you
can you can make all those puns. Yeah,
exactly. SAS is trash, whatever. Um, but
I'm looking at the the share price of
Salesforce. Oh, yeah.
>> In particular, because I always think of
Salesforce as sort of like emblematic,
>> the poster child.
>> Yeah. Poster child of like a software
company that I'm not really sure what
they do. Um, but yeah, it's it's just
ugly.
>> It's basically been cut in half, hasn't
it? Since its peak, like in early 2025.
Right now it's 184 84.
>> And it's all your fault, Joe.
>> It's all my fault. That's right. Because
uh earlier in the year after we got back
from uh Christmas vacation or Christmas
break, you know, around that I'd seen
everyone play around with Claude code
and then I had to do it. We did an
episode and so people were like, "Oh, if
Joe lives can like figure out cloud code
that there must not be any value to any
of these uh companies at all." there.
You know, you mentioned Salesforce.
That's far from the ugliest one. I'm
looking at um Atlassian, which makes a
lot of like workforce productivity
companies, like some Slack competitors
and stuff. That was a $450 stock back in
2021. That's an $86 stock. So, like,
>> yeah, it's ugly. And yeah, as you said,
everyone is realizing that if any old
fool can uh can write software, maybe
these companies,
>> yeah,
>> they don't have much value.
>> I mean, I will just say it's not just
software right now. So we're seeing this
sort of rolling series of concerns where
like every time AI does something or
creates some new product, it hits a
particular industry. So on Monday it was
the insurance industry insurance brokers
and you know today Wednesday February
11th I think it's some of the broker uh
like stock broker firms
>> and you yeah you all you have to do is
just say AI industry and there's a you
know it's really there's a lot of
anxiety but there's something that like
doesn't make any sense to me about this
or the thing that I'm wrapping my head
around is like sure any of us could
easily like write some software but like
software writing software is a cost
center for these companies right like if
your sales force
and you can trivially reduce the cost of
building software. That should that's
also a benefit for you. And there's a
lot more to a software company than just
code generation because there's all
kinds of like you know network effects
and links into this. It's like a
software company is clearly more than
just code. And so the fact that maybe
code can be generate generated a lot
cheaper does not scream to me like oh
these companies are worth less than they
used to.
>> Sure. But at the same time they've been
pricing their pricing is based on that
assumption right like that there is no
competitor for what they're doing and
suddenly you might have an in-house
competitor.
>> Absolutely. But you know it's like
network effects and do companies want to
start like building their own like
payroll software. Anyway, I have a lot
of questions about this selloff and to
your point
>> no no this is you uh doing like penance
first for causing causing the selloff.
>> All right. Um let's talk to someone who
actually might be able to so answer some
of these uh questions for us. Um we're
going to be speaking to someone who's
been in the software space, an investor
in the software space for a long time.
Recently put out a great deck sort of
really diving into SAS and the SAS
apocalypse and what kinds of companies
are thriving and what kinds of companies
were struggling even before everyone
started talking about uh AI code
generation and all that. We're going to
be speaking with uh Jared Sleeper. is a
partner at uh Avenue which does a growth
investing private company. So Jared,
thanks for coming on OddLots.
>> Yeah, my pleasure. Excited to be here.
>> Uh why are we talking to you just uh you
know for our listeners? Apparently this
is the your first time on a a podcast
which is crazy but um why are we talking
to you? Give us a little bit about your
background um investing in software and
understanding the space.
>> Yeah, my pleasure. So I think one thing
that makes me a little bit different in
the investor world is that I've spent
time investing in early stage startups,
public companies, and everything in
between. So I spent a chunk of my career
at an early stage venture fund in Boston
called Matrix Partners working with an
OG SAS investor named David Scock and
then was also at COTU where I ran public
software. Uh and so I've kind of have
this like experience across the spectrum
from ground floor startups to looking at
the big public companies which I've done
for the last 10 years.
>> Perfect guest.
>> Perfect guest. So give us a sense of
like give us some color on the mood in
software at the moment. Are people like
I don't know hunkering down in their
bunkers? How bad is it? Yeah, I get
texted constantly from folks on the buy
side just, you know, retrenching. I
can't believe this is happening. Can it
go lower? I keep saying that. It's the
hundth time I've bought the dip. Uh, you
know, you use the SAS apocalypse like
catastrophe is my catastrophe.
>> It's definitely one of those moments.
And we were talking about this a little
bit earlier before starting, but one of
the things about software that's really
fascinating is there's very few folks
even on the buy side who really
understand how software works. It's one
of those roarshock test kind of sectors
where almost no one's logged into
Salesforce and clicked around much less
been a Salesforce admin and understood
the full complexity. And so when there's
panic there's not a lot of support for
the stocks and people you know get
scared very easily. Well explain what
this means. So for example
in in a lot of companies it's like
you're saying that the people who invest
or trade these stocks they just know
them as financial tables basically and
they have some idea of their financials
and some idea of their customer base etc
but they don't have like a great
intuition for the product unlike say you
know people who use Instagram and
therefore might have a feel about Meta
for example.
>> Yeah. If you're an investor in Lululemon
you have a pretty solid conception of
what that business is. You can go into
yoga pants.
>> Exactly. You can buy the product, ship
it to yourself. Um, if you're an
investor in Viva, which makes CRM
software for pharmaceutical reps, uh, I
bet you there's almost no investors in
Viva, who have ever been inside the
product, even once, much less used it on
a day-to-day basis and understood how it
works.
>> Got it.
>> So, I'm going to go way back in time and
start at, I guess, the very beginning.
But why is it that software like this
you know payment management systems
whatever why were they historically not
developed inhouse like how did we get
this model where we have these huge
software companies that are really you
know to date have been really integral
to a lot of businesses.
>> Yeah it's a great question. Um, you
know, back in the very early days of
software, like back in the 70s or 80s,
there was a lot done in-house. And we've
seen a very clear mix shift over time
towards using thirdparty software. And
what it comes down to is the software
was expensive to build and maintain. And
there's this need for an ecosystem of
integrations around it, which are also
expensive to build and maintain. And so
if you look at a software company, it
can afford to have one, two, 3,000
engineers plus partnership teams, etc.
all working uh to build the perfect
piece of software for a given
application. And then what's striking
and this will come up a lot more in this
conversation is not selling it for that
much money. Right? A lot of software
companies report a stat which is the
share of our customers that pay us more
than $100,000 a year. And $100,000 a
year is less than half of the fully
loaded cost of a software engineer.
Right? And so the software model was
build a product that can be applied to
thousands of customers and it's the same
product for every customer and then sell
it to them for way cheaper than they
could ever hope to build it themselves
even less than the cost of one employee.
We could I'd love to just sort of like
talk long-term software history even
before you know we think a lot about SAS
and these startups and stuff like that
but like a lot of the big companies that
we think of in software especially like
pre-S Salesforce whether it's like SAP,
Oracle, Microsoft obviously don't they
have like a aren't there a bunch of
thirdparty companies whose job is to
just like help install it for you like
SAP install and that'll be a totally
separate company because it's so big and
it's so unwieldy and complex. that you
actually you can't just like install it
yourself or it has to be customized or
whatever.
>> 100%. And there's two parts to that
which I think are important. One is the
integrations into your existing systems.
Right? A lot of big old companies have
old databases, old applications and it's
important for everything to be stitched
together. Uh so you need software
engineers and you know consultants to go
in and understand those existing systems
and kind of get them linked up to the
new systems. But the other one which is
probably bigger is just people
management and change management. You
know, any software system is the
combination of the code and all of the
individual users who have learned how to
use it. If you're trying to change out
your CRM at a company, that means
training every single sales rep on how
to use the new CRM and getting it right.
And if they get it wrong, then you lose
deals that quarter. And so, you know,
one of the kind of tropes in investing
is if you see a company that's doing an
ERP transition, ERP stands for
enterprise resource planning, it's a
kind of core software, accounting, you
know, supply chain, etc. That company's
probably going to miss its earnings over
the next one or two quarters because
those transitions are so painful. And
so, yes, there's a big consulting
complex around it that does its best to
come in and parachute in the the talent
that's required to make those
transitions smooth. And that tells you
something about what makes software so
sticky or at least has historically.
>> It's third party agents all the way down
I feel. But actually on this note so we
hear the integration point brought up a
lot and I think the very first episode
we did on cloud code we talked a little
bit about it as well. But like if if you
have something like cloud code where you
can just give it permissions to make
changes to your computer, does some of
that integration expertise actually
start to go away? Because presumably
we're we are going to get AI, I would
assume, at some point given the rate
that it's developing and improving that
we'll be able to do this like plug
itself into various systems.
>> Yeah, 100%. I think the challenge of
writing the code for the integrations is
going away.
That's not the bulk of the challenge for
majority of integrations. It's about
really deeply understanding the prior
system and how it maps to the new
system. And the reality is within most
organizations that's that's a human
problem. It's hey this column says
status 2004. What does that mean? Like
how does that map to the new system that
we're building? So you have to go talk
to someone and understand it. And so
there's certain types of integrations
where I think they're effectively solved
problems now because you can write a
quick, you know, write into chat into
cloud code and get a perfectly written
piece of software to make it happen. Um,
and then there's others that are just
fundamentally human problems because the
data doesn't exist in digital space.
>> Let's talk more about that because
really it is pretty extraordinary the
degree to which
I I don't know it's the co working code.
I don't know if it's high quality code,
but certainly these models can generate
um working code and it's just it's it's
uh it it blows my mind whenever I use
it. But talk to us a little bit more
about from the perspective of a various
software vendors and I'm sure there's a
range about what they're selling and how
much is it code versus how much is it
other stuff and which ones are sort of
more exposed to the pure like code
generation ability.
>> Yeah, it's a great question. I think and
and you're 100% right. It's producing
working code and frankly it has been for
the last year or so. I built my first
lovable app that was working in
production about about a year ago and
it's even intensified in the last three
months. Right? I think when people buy
software, there's a set of things that
they're buying. Um, one thing that I
think is important for everyone to
understand is that open- source software
has been a thing and there have been
free open- source versions of almost any
software you could buy for all of
recorded history. Um, there's actually
some companies that are public that
built their businesses packaging that
open source software and adding a few
custom features and then support on top
of it because when a company's reliant
on an open-source database or a company
like Elastic with its Elastic Search
product, which is an infrastructure
tool, and it breaks, they need someone
to call um both for CIA reasons and
because it can be very complex and
technical uh and they need to quickly
understand it. And so, you know, that
has been a big part of the story
historically is that need to, you know,
have support. Uh, another thing that you
sell when you sell as a software vendor
is what I call herd familiarity, which
means everyone on Earth knows how to use
your software, which just simplifies the
training and onboarding workflow. I'll
give a few examples because I'm sure
it's a new term for listeners since I
made it up. Um, you know, Zoom is a
great business. Microsoft has been
giving away a free version of the
product forever in Teams. Um, why do
people use Zoom? Because in certain
industries, almost everyone knows how to
use Zoom. They have their Zoom setup.
They have their virtual background
chosen. They're not going to fumble
around for the first minute or two on
the call. And that's well worth the $20
a month to have a Zoom plan. But that
applies to lots of other areas as well.
So, think about Microsoft Excel, for
example. You might be able to use Google
Sheets to do the same thing, but do you
really want to retrain every person who
comes in on the Google Sheets shortcuts
versus the Excel shortcuts, it's not a
good use of time, especially when the
software is already so cheap. And so
that's another kind of plank in what
people are buying when they buy software
is the standardization and the knowledge
that they'll be able to hire employees
who have that. And then there's things
like brand um again the kind of
ecosystem that comes around it. And so
it really is more than just the raw
code. We've been joking about this, but
the the idea of software companies value
lying in being a scapegoat essentially
for when things go wrong is uh kind of
funny and dystopian, I think, in many
ways.
>> Yeah. I mean, I think, you know, it's a
real fear, right? And the way I think
about it is there are two arguments
against software right now. One is the
world is going to stay the same, but
software is just going to get a lot
cheaper over time now that it's cheaper
to build. And I think there's no one who
would argue that it's not gotten
dramatically cheaper to build for
reasons that we laid out in our deck and
we can talk through it more. We don't
buy that argument. Um I don't buy that
argument. But the second is the world's
about to get really weird and the way
that knowledge work happens is going to
change. And if we think out three, four,
five years, who knows if there will even
be customer support reps or sales reps
or software engineers. And I think
that's what's causing the kind of hit to
the share prices lately is this terminal
value concern. Yeah, it was interesting.
So, one of the companies that's sort of
been associated with the uh what' you
say catastrophe, one of those companies
that's sort of been caught up in this um
blue owl, the private uh private
investing firm, private credit. I read
through their conference call and their
CEO was like, "Not only do we not see
red lights, not only do we not even see
yellow lights, we actually see a lot of
green lights." which I think is really
interesting because it sort of can fit
with this idea of this year could be
fine, next year could be fine, the year
after that could be fine, and then the
year after that could be zero. Or at
least that's the anxiety that there's
this terminal value. Talk more there's
like a cliff for us, right?
>> Yeah. There's this cliff.
>> Yeah. I I think it's really helpful. You
know, this is our second iteration of
the deck and so we kind of force
ourselves to recenter on what actually
happened since the last deck, right? And
there's a very clear pattern in software
and what happened over the last 5 years
which is the pandemic. People freaked
out at the beginning but it was rapidly
clear that it was an accelerant for SAS
uh as everyone tried to digitize their
companies. And so you had a spike in the
growth rate and net retention of the
businesses. It peaked at just over 40%
in 2021 for the median software
companies. That's really nice annualized
growth. And then there was a hangover
and that slowed down. And we wrote 18
months ago that that reflected the
sector sort of maturing. The adoption
had just slowed down because most folks
had adopted the software that they
needed under the pressure of the
pandemic. And so for the last few years
after that, we saw this degradation in
growth rates across the sector. Um by
the beginning of last year, the median
company was growing 18% instead of 40%.
So you saw a pretty significant draw
down. What's fascinating is that if you
look at the actual financial performance
of the companies in the last year, it's
been pretty good. uh that growth rate
has held. It was 18% again in Q3. Uh net
retention has also been consistent at
about 110%. So that's revenue from
existing customers over the same revenue
from those customers the prior year. So
there's not a churn issue developing or
a lack of expansion within the customer
base. Um and and a lot of the companies
are actually accelerating growth or or
guiding to accelerating growth. Uh we
have a chart showing the number of those
companies has increased each quarter
over the last three successive quarters.
And so there's a lot going on right now
with the terminal value, but it's very
hard to argue that this is something
that's happening today and showing up in
the numbers. Uh the thing is investors
are sharp, right? And they're they're
constantly looking forward looking.
>> Yeah. I mean look look at look at CHEG,
right? Which went down very quickly uh
in the aftermath of Chad GPD coming out
and that was completely correct, right?
Uh investors were ahead of that and of
course for the first few quarters uh the
management team of CHEG, you know, had
their heads in the sand. Um, but then it
became clear that it really was
existential to their business.
>> That's a fun chart.
>> I thought I was looking at a typo for a
second cuz I saw Wow, that was that was
a check was a hund nearly hundred that
was a near $100 stock in February 2021
is now a 61 cent stock. That's rough.
>> And you have to give the markets credit.
Like the second CHP came out, people
were like, "This company's in big
trouble." They didn't wait for it to hit
the financial results. And so there is
signal in what people think.
>> Can you talk to us? I have a bunch more
questions, but just briefly, where does
data actually fit into all of this?
Because the other thing we hear about AI
is like, uh, maybe the models don't
matter that much, but it's the actual
data that you have access to, and I
imagine the customers themselves of SAS
companies, they have their own data. Do
the SAS companies have their own data as
well? Can they build off of that?
>> Yeah, it's a great question. And we're
here at one of the world's biggest data
companies. So, so very apt. Full
disclosure,
>> data is definitely something that gets
more valuable in this world. If you
think about a stylized AI model, it
could have PhD level intelligence in a
domain. But if you hired a PhD into your
company and sat her down on her first
day, she wouldn't be very useful, right?
She would have to understand how the
organization functions, where do things
live, do I trust this chart or that
chart? I need access to the Google
Drive. I need access to Slack. I need to
spend some time reading up. And so what
we call we call this kind of context,
right? It's all the extra information
that an AI needs to get something done,
no matter how intelligent it is. Um, and
we wrote about this in the chart in the
deck, but there's a real question of who
becomes that system of context. And
you're right, a lot of the software
companies do sit on a pool of very
important data. Uh, let's talk about
Salesforce for example, right? Um, CRM
is where you track the records of every
customer you have, every prospect in
your pipeline, all of your historic
interactions with them, notes from sales
reps on what's going on, the status of
their account, their customer support
requests. It's an incredibly complex
piece of software for a large
enterprise. And obviously, if you are an
AI agent working within a company, you
would need access to that in order to
get almost anything done, right? But you
need more than is there. You don't know
what happened at the sales dinner last
night unless the rep took really
detailed notes. And I can tell you one
common learning in software is they do
not take very detailed notes. So
>> at a sales party, right?
>> Yeah, exactly. People assume that
software management teams know exactly
what's going on, but they're looking
through really messy Salesforce data uh
and doing their very best. And
>> right now, I'm imagining a sales agent
being like, "The Cabernet was exquisite
at last night's party, just putting in
all these irrelevant like diary
entries."
>> Exactly. But a lot of that context does
live in human brains. You know, a sales
rep meets a a person at dinner, gets to
know their kids, figures out what sports
team they root for, and they're not
automatically pumping all that into the
CRM. And so, there's this race to
collect the information that an AI agent
would need in order to actually take
proactive action. And the software
companies have a position there, but
there's also this set of AI native
startups that are coming in building
actual agents who are doing their own
work to collect that context. And that's
one of the battles that we saw you that
we kind of highlighted in our deck is
whoever wins that has a chance to be a
really valuable company.
>> You know, I think about uh and I think
you talk about this in your deck, but
when I think about software, I sort of
have on the one like if there's a
spectrum, you know, I think about uh
Salesforce.com,
which is a platform and there's third
party developers that build on top of
Salesforce and they sort of offer any
everything. And then I think about
something niche like this is the company
that makes point of sales software for
dentist office and they went around by
giving them free um free payment
terminals and they joined Y Combinator
and uh you know they signed up 10,000
dentist office and then they pay those
offices pay them $10 a month uh forever
for access to that uh you know what I'm
just making it up but things like that
like is there a side of the spectrum
that's more at risk here. Is that
spectrum legitimate way to think about
the industry or is there threats on sort
of wherever you look?
>> Yeah, it's a great question. I mean,
certainly in the world gets really weird
scenario, it's not clear there's
anywhere immune from threats, but it's
important to think through what it looks
like. I think what's most at threat is
companies that serve enterprises with
very customized software already or
software that takes a very heavy
implementation. And the reason is if
anyone's going to take advantage of this
wave of technology to really, you know,
advance and and replace a core system of
software, it's going to be the
enterprises that have the resources and
the customization needs. If you think
about SMBs, you know, my my dad runs our
family's grocery store, been in the
family for hundred years, and he just
changed his point of sale for the first
time in a few decades. Um, and it was a
really messy process. Took a long time.
>> Will your dad come on all?
>> Yeah, sure thing. We love grocery
all about independent grocery and and
you know he's certainly not going to sit
down and vibe code himself a point of
sales system and put the store on it. I
can guarantee you that. Nor will any
dentist, right?
>> There's a chance that someone comes
along with a cheaper version, but you
know, I think that's not not something
he's going to switch to anytime soon.
He's not he doesn't want to go through
that pain for another few decades to
come, right? And so it really is, you
know, kind of company by company. Like
I'm doing this exercise right now on X
where every day I look at a different
software company and just think hard
about what will AI look for this look
like for this company and it's really
interesting when you press I'll give an
example like docuine um which I think to
most investors would seem like an
incredibly simple easy piece of software
right uh it's an e- signature software
we've all experienced it docuine has
more employees today than openai and
anthropic combined
>> oh my god
>> which is a crazy stat um and probably
reflects that labor is inefficiently
allocated across the market. But when
you actually double click into what
docuine does, there are ways in which
it's very um complicated, right?
Understanding the signature regulations
in every country around the world. What
does it take for a signature to be
legally valid? Most of its signatures
are done as an API. So folks are
integrating it into their own
applications. Um and there's a benefit
to using DocYsine, which is the brand.
people have been giving away freeign e-
signature software for a very long time.
But if you're a company of a certain
esteem, you want to make sure your
customers trust what they're signing and
if they're getting a contract from you,
you'd much rather say docuign than XYZ
sign that someone vibe coded, right? And
so I think it's really important to look
company by company. It's definitely a
stock picker market where there's some
that are either relatively immune or
have a chance to benefit and there's
others that could be in real trouble. So
is the argument the bull case for
software or at least the non um sudden
death case for software this idea that
like okay if you have a software company
that's producing I don't know like docu
sign you're able to sign documents
digitally and track them and share them
and all of that you can build more
quickly and more efficiently off of that
base model and sort of provide like new
versions new customizations for
customers so I could docy sign for
dentists just to stick with that
example. I don't know what specific
needs dentists would would have. I don't
know, maybe marking up like teeth or
something. Yeah. And then I can do like
docyign for doctors and doc docyign for
sales agents or whatever and just keep
going.
>> Yeah, I think I think that's right. I
actually kind of think of it as there's
three cases. There's the software gets
wiped out case, there's the not much
happens to software case, and then
there's the bull case where the software
companies capture a lot of value. I
think it's a little different than them
adding a lot of features and
functionality. Frankly, I think a lot of
software products today are pretty
mature. There's been thousand engineers
working on them for 10 years and they've
built not all but most of the things
that you'd want to build with today's
technology. But with agents, there's
ways to automate a big chunk of the
work. So, one software company that's
done this very well is Intercom. Um,
Intercom sells customer support
software. It's those little widgets on
the bottom right hand corner of
websites. They were the creators of
that. um they had a nice business but
then they got very aggressive about
building out an AI product called Finn
which answers customer support queries
on its own and they've I think they've
mentioned that it's almost 100 million
of ARR now on a base that was you know
like 300 million of AR or something like
that and so they've really reacelerated
their business um by building an AI
native tool that actually solves the
work not just kind of exists as a tool
that humans use and so yeah I think
that's like the mega bullcase I I think
about it like almost a transition from
brick-andmortar retail to e-commerce
where you have a brand new way of doing
business and you have a bunch of legacy
companies and some of them will probably
just exist as they always have. Others
can benefit from the change and add new
business lines. You look at Walmart's
share price. Uh it's done amazingly well
at incorporating e-commerce into its
business. And then there's going to be
some that are like Sears uh and go away.
>> That's funny. Sears always reminds me,
my dad loved Sears because he always
said the parking lot was empty when he
goes to the shopping mall. So he always
went through Sears. Anyway,
>> in that world though, so I understand
like the cost argument, it brings down
the cost of code. Maybe you have fewer
employees or whatever, but where does
growth actually come from in that world?
How are you expanding your customer
base? Yeah, you're you're really going
to them and saying we are replacing
human labor and you you have there's a
different pricing paradigm now. You used
to think of us as something you paid you
know 20 30 $40 $50 per seat per month
for as a tool for your employees almost
as if you know your employees are
artisans and they're getting a toolkit
to work with and now we're just selling
you an employee or the results of an
employee. So, you know, we will sell you
customer support tickets getting closed
out for 50 cents or a dollar per ticket.
Uh, and you can do the math of what it
would cost you for the human to do that
or what it would cost you for AI to do
that. Um, and we'll be cheaper, but
we're also dramatically increasing what
you pay us because, you know, we're
cutting into a completely different
stream. And so, that's what I think it
looks like. We see a lot of exciting
examples in the startup space of
companies that are getting much much
higher pricing than they
>> and this is a totally new pricing model
for software. We actually just recorded
another episode and they I guess sort of
teased that but talk to us about so it's
like resultsbased pricing. Talk to us
about
>> Yeah, it's it's it's results based
pricing. There's a lot of questions on
how it'll ultimately shake out.
>> Fundamentally what these companies are
doing is they are reselling
intelligence, right? The core model
vendors Open Eye, Anthropic, Google have
created a way to get elastic
intelligence and if you have the right
data and you can put the right harness
around it, you can now sell that to your
customers. What's an open question is
how do you price that relative to the
intelligence. So, uh I was talking to
someone this morning who said they think
50% gross margins on intelligence are
about right. But we see a lot of
variance in how startups are doing it
today. Some are getting 80% gross
margins on top of the model vendors.
Others are getting 20%. But in what's
absolutely true in any case is if you're
able to do that, you get much much
higher pricing in total dollars than you
did before. Orders of magnitude in some
cases.
>> But just to be clear, like the the cost
savings, it can't be priced so high that
the company that's using the software to
produce these outcomes like isn't saving
money, right? Like that's the the
balancing act
>> 100%. Uh but I think if you think about
we we talked about this a little bit
earlier think about where software
pricing was already right you know think
about Salesforce you know at the elite
tier you know 80 90 $100 per user per
month so for round numbers say $1,000
per user per year for sales reps who
could be making on average $250 $300,000
per year if you have a technology that
can come in and replace a sales rep you
can charge $50,000 still give the
customer a 5x ROI Um, and then you've
you've effectively 50xed your take rate
on that revenue. And so that's the
exciting opportunity that that's that's
what has people excited in startup land
for sure. If you talk if you talk to
folks from Silicon Valley, they are
foaming at the mouth about the
opportunity to really expand tech spend
in this way. And that's also the
opportunity for the software companies
that get it right. There must be another
risk too which is that like if you can
sell if you can sort of resell
intelligence at say an 80% gross margin
then for the model makers themselves
they're like well why do we just want to
be this is going to sound weird why do
we want to be the dumb intelligence
right and that's sort of like we don't
they said we don't want to be the dumb
pipe and we saw that like in the cloud
era right the the Asurers and the Google
cloud and the Amazon one they didn't
want to just be commodity cloud and they
started building like medical features.
They wanted to differentiate themselves.
So, it must be a risk for the company's
reselling intelligence that it's so
lucrative. And then like how are you
thinking about the core model makers
themselves? Yeah. And how they're
thinking about expand like um yeah
expanding into some of these fields
rather than just piping in intelligence
for them.
>> Well, well, look, I mean like like in
any situation, they're going to have to
make decisions, right? So when Amazon,
you know, built AWS, they had to decide
where are we going to press and where
are we not. Uh are we going to sell
database software or are we going to let
other vendors do that on top of us? Uh
and they kind of made those decisions as
it as it went out. What's really
interesting is if you look at the
foundation model vendors, they have been
racing towards the application layer. Um
both claude code and co-work and openai
codecs are applications that people
download and use, right? And I think
that reflects this understanding that
there is value in getting the users used
to using your application. Yeah. Um
otherwise as you know you may you risk
being an API that's commoditized. People
switch back and forth between you and
that kind of application vendor has that
control. So one of the advantages that
software has is like this network effect
comfort software as a security blanket
for management right but at the same
time people are getting really
comfortable with AI. Yeah,
>> like telling them everything. And I keep
thinking like if part of the part of the
sales pitch for software is like this
sense of comfort, but then AI is rapidly
becoming the thing that you talk to for
everything like does it eventually just
become a portal for doing all these
different things? It's a really
interesting question and this is where
there's probably the biggest disparity
between how enterprise buyers think and
how humans think, right? Uh I'm sure you
guys have seen Claudebot um and the kind
of rise of this like you know open
source agents that people are deploying
for themselves giving them access to
everything their whole computer etc.
>> That's Joe.
>> Yeah.
>> No, I didn't install I didn't install
club.
>> Oh, you didn't? No,
>> I'm getting mine set up on a Mac Mini
with a hammer next to it.
>> Wait, I'm really curious why not because
of this issue. Yeah, because of that and
it just seemed like
>> a potential waste of tokens and stuff.
Anyway,
>> yeah. And then it then it turned out
that for a while on multbook, which was
the social media for like all of the pe
all the APIs were available in a public
facing database that anyone could go
read. And so it was like a completely
open system that had to get fixed. And
so, you know, enterprises really do
worry about this stuff and they worry
about it for good reason. I'll give you
another really interesting example. So,
there's a bunch of startups that help
you record Zoom calls and transcribe
them. Um, all of those Zoom calls then
become legally discoverable because
they're transcribed somewhere. And so
you have VCs in Silicon Valley who will
refuse to use them and you have other
firms that are all in recording
everything that happens across the board
so that they can upload that into AI as
context. Um, I think it's a really it's
a really great point. Um, you know, and
one of the things that makes me wonder
is companies that are willing to skirt
the rules or, you know, play fast and
loose will be moving much faster over
the next two or three years. And one of
the reason big incumbents struggle is
because they actually do have to care
about this this stuff. They have stuff
to protect. Uh they don't want to be
sued. Uh they can't handle a major
breach and startups are able to just
move faster given that.
>> So every time uh software stocks sell
off with this uh and people say oh they
might go bargain hunting and they say
what's cheap and what uh what baby is
being thrown out with the bathwater.
Someone always a bunch of people was
like, "Yes, they look cheap, but have
you considered uh stockbased
compensation?" And it turns out that
these companies are not nearly as
profitable once you factor this in.
There was a very interesting note from
Barkclays, I think it was. I think it
was Barkclays. This is very interesting.
And it said, um, "Our European investors
are always asking about SBC. Are
American investors only ask when there's
a crisis?" Which I think tells you
something about the difference between
Europeans and Americans. I thought that
was a fascinating sociological
observation. But uh tell us like how
should we think about the cost because
again if if uh if code generation is a
cost base presumably these software
companies don't need as many employees
either and they could pair back out
there. So talk to us about how we're
thinking about the costs inside the
software company.
>> Great question and yeah I mean certainly
theoretically true, right? But aside
from Elon cutting 80% of Twitter X's
headcount, we really haven't seen any
companies take the pill and kind of
realize the benefits of that. The SBC
debate has been going on for a long
time. I've had it adnauseium over the
course of my career. It's a real
expense. You're issuing your employees
stock. They value it like cash. Many of
them autoell it the day it vests for
them. Um and I think what what what the
problem that it creates for software
companies is they the management teams
are addicted to reporting non-GAAP uh
which excludes the impact of SBC and so
if you are an entrepreneur who founded
the software business who's technical
hasn't really ever cared more that much
about the financial side you're a
product person um you may think that
you've been doing a good job of being a
profitable company because your CFO is
telling you well we're at a 25% non-GAAP
operating margin
that's pretty good when the reality is
you're running break even. Um, which is
a very common state of affairs. You
know, we looked at the whole universe
and the median public software company
has a 5% non-GAAP net income or gap net
income margin. Um, which is not enough
to value the companies on. And so it
creates this dynamic where you know,
yes, there's this terminal value
concern, which by far the most important
thing, but there's also no floor, right?
I was looking at the earnings report
from Freshworks, which is a a mid-market
seller of customer support and IT
management software. Um, it trades at
one and a half times EV to sales. If it
ran at even a 10% gap margin, it'd be
trading at 15 times earnings. You know,
that's which is a pretty attractive
place to be. You could get some value
investors, maybe some European investors
interested in buying it there. um but it
doesn't have material gap earnings and
on their earnings call there was no real
you know sense of trajectory towards
that. Um and you see the share price
down
>> it's down 16%.
>> Exactly. And like the topline results
were actually pretty good. And so
there's a there's a real issue here on
the financial side as well. It's
incredibly disappointing to me that
management teams haven't embraced this
as a way to cut costs themselves and uh
I expect they will.
>> Yeah. talk to us about this
specifically. Do companies need to like
are we going to see big layoffs across
the SAS space in the near term and what
do you think is the time frame for that?
>> Great question. I think we will. I think
we've seen that management teams do
respond to price signals. If you look at
the the history of the sector, um it was
in 2023 when there was a round of
layoffs um and companies showed margin
and then they've kind of resisted it for
the last two years. Um, the thing about
it is layoffs can help you move faster,
right? I think if you look within any
company today, unfortunately, there's
this spectrum of employees and how fast
they've adopted AI, whether they're
still doing things the old way or
they're on cloud code, cloud co-work
kind of changing the way that they work.
And the comp the employees who are on
the lower end are actually slowing you
down as a company. They're not even zero
marginal product. They're negative
marginal product. there's just been such
a change in how you work, especially in
software development. And so I think
management teams are going to realize
that there's two benefits to actually
doing layoffs. Um, in addition to the
obvious pain of it and the kind of human
costs, which I never, you know, forget
to discuss, but one is saving money and
showing your shareholders you're
financially disciplined and probably
seeing your share price stabilize,
especially if you're trading at some
very low multiple. And the second is
moving faster and also almost as
importantly being able to pay your top
performing employees. The war for talent
in Silicon Valley has never been more
intense. Right now I was talking to a
private company I invested in and
they're losing employees left and right
to these high growth AI companies who
can afford to pay huge comp packages in
both equity and stock. And you want to
keep your good people. You don't want to
you don't want your these AI companies
to pluck away all the best people and
leave you um with the folks who are
relative leites. So I do think we'll see
this. It's very sad that that will have
to happen but it's the obvious path
forward for the sector and I think if
done right it accelerates innovation. I
have a tangential question on that note
which is whenever we talk about
technological disruption, you know,
people bring out examples of like, well,
remember when actuaries, right? Remember
when Excel was basically actual people
sat down with like papers in front of
them doing the math and those people
didn't disappear when Excel got created,
but they started doing new things. I
imagine a lot of people are very
interested right now in alternative
careers for basic commoditized coders.
What do those actually look like?
>> Yeah. Um
>> I feel like you might have some insight
here.
>> The alternative Well, so I think there's
two ways to answer the question, right?
There's like what do you do if you want
to stay a coder and then there's what
are the careers that are going to still
exist over time, right? I think if you
think about what's happening to coding,
it reminds me a lot of civil
engineering. And so it's kind of a funky
example, but you know, civil engineers
used to work pen and paper doing
calculus. Will this bridge hold up or
not? That's been obsolete for a very
long time. All those calculations are
done by a computer. They're kind of
clicking and moving and they go on site,
they collect some data, they talk to
stakeholders, and they're effectively
project managing this computer that can
do the physics part of their job for
them. It's important that they
understand the physics in case something
looks strange, but they're not doing
much physics, right? That's clearly
where software engineering is heading in
the near term. In a lot of companies,
it's already there. And these companies
are still hiring software engineers
because that job is valuable. And in
fact, each individual software engineer
is way more productive than they were
before. Uh, and there's happily elastic
demand for software. Like we still are
under supplied with software in the
world. And so there's quite a bit of
room to go to add those. And so I'm not
necessarily bearish on the demand for
software engineers at least for the
next, you know, three to five years.
Beyond that, if things get weird, hard
to tell. But then for people more
broadly, I think the best advice is just
adaptability. You know, constantly
trying and testing these tools, making
sure you're staying at the cutting edge
of them. Um, and then being aware of
what's human, right? I think in like in
my work in in venture investing, you
know, there's a lot of data that comes
out of human relationships that an AI
wouldn't have access to. You know, an AI
can't call its friend at another fund
and ask how a company's doing. Um, not
yet at least. It have to make some
friends first, right?
>> They are talking to each other on
Moltbook, right?
>> They're talking on Moltbook. Yeah. So,
maybe if there's an AI agent from
Sequoia and an AI agent from Andrea.
>> I was intrigued by that for about five
minutes. That
>> was pretty fake. It's It was very
evocative, but pretty fake. Well, also
there was that Wired article of the guy
who like infiltrated as a bot and
pretended to be a bot. It was pretty
obvious.
>> Why are we they they're like, "Oh, why
are we let's create a new language just
for us." Like they're not making new
languages,
>> right?
>> But yeah, I think I think the rough
mental model is if there was any effort
to outsource your job to India.
>> Yeah,
>> that's risk because that tells you that
that job can be done by person someone
who's not physically present in a space.
And you know, if you like working on
problems in isolation, not socially with
other people, you know, grinding out
math problems or little coding
assignments, that's probably also a
pretty tough place to be. It's going to
be a more social world.
>> This is something we've touched on
before which makes me kind of sad, which
is the the edge in the AI world becomes
hu like sociability, right? And to some
extent,
>> we talked about this in the context of
look smack. I know you love it, Joe. I
do not. Um, can I say two two little
observations from my time uh vibe coding
in 2026 that are interesting? One is I
have zero technical background. I've
been surprised by the speed with which I
can build intuitions about when it's
going off the rails like when it's doing
something that doesn't seem right. Like
I joke that vibe coding is just typing
make it better, press enter over and
over again and then hitting yes when it
offers to do something. you you actually
stu can start to build an intuition
fairly quickly like when this doesn't
make sense. And then the other thing and
this relates to your question of like
trusting the AI. So one of the things
I'm doing is I'm having a lot of
documents get annotated and that I do
that through the cloud API which
actually runs up the bills a little bit
and like one thing this API run was
going to cost like $100 and I was like
is this like and I stupidly I like asked
Claude I was like is this a good thing?
It's like well when you're done with
this API you're going to have API run
you're going to have this annotated
asset that no one else has done and
that'll be very it was sort of useless
what I did so you shouldn't like
>> it's selling itself itself is like oh
yeah use the API Joe run this like
annotate all these documents it wasn't
actually like a good use of my time so
you can't really always uh they're just
gonna they're going to just sell these
things there's one other sector that I'm
interested in
>> you see these companies like um Moody's
or Fair Isaac or S&P Global that have an
index.
>> Yes.
>> Um and it's and they're getting they're
selling off too and it's not like this
is another area where like it's you know
people are fund managers for a long time
unless things get really weird the super
they're going to be like benchmarking
themselves off of like the S&P 500 for a
long time or lenders are going to be
using the FICO for a very long time etc.
Intuitively, it would strike me as this
would be a very hard thing for AI to
replace.
>> I share your intuition, right? Um, I
can't say I fully understand the
sell-off in these companies. I wonder if
there's not some parts of their
businesses that are more services or
consulting heavy that people are there's
often like combinations, right, where
like I don't think anyone's suspecting
that like, you know, the S&P 500 is
going to be displaced as an index.
>> Yeah. Drop 500
>> because Yeah, maybe. Um, but look, we
we're in a world where folks are very
happy to shoot first and ask questions
later once AI risk comes out. Actually,
going back to your hedge fund time, like
how much is it just the sort of the
nature of hedge fund traders right now
where there's very little stomach to
take any downside risk and appear to
look stupid for missing, you know,
holding the bag here and how much do you
think that's contributing to some of
these market moves?
>> It's a great I I won't speak to my fund
because I think CO2 and Tiger Cubs like
it are a fairly small share of the
overall market in dollars, right? But if
you look at trading volumes, the pod
shops, Citadel, Balazzy, Millennium are
very large share of the volumes. And
yeah, those people can't afford draw
downs, right? Um and the scary thing
about this for them is because it's not
fundamental. Like because the companies
aren't struggling themselves, they have
no idea when it will stop, right? And so
you're left predicting this thing and
you're like, well, I bet my career that
people are going to feel better about
software companies in three to six
months than they do right now. And you
know, you're one OpenAI model release or
anthropic model release away from more
fear. And so I do think there's a lot of
short- termism um right now. And there's
all but again I think we come back to
the SBC point, but there's also no
valuation support, no real valuation
support. You know, in normal times, if
companies were like this, it'd be buying
back a bunch of their stock, shrinking
their share count, issuing dividends.
You know, I have a friend who works at a
mutual fund where there's a lot of
dividend funds that would love to buy
dividending companies growing 10 to 15%
like a lot of software companies, but
they they're not right. And so, you've
kind of lost the ability to kind of put
an actual floor in underneath the
valuations as a result of that.
>> Jared Sleeper, thank you so much for uh
coming on OddLocks and explaining how
software works. Pleasure fun. Thanks,
>> Tracy. I thought that was really
interesting. I'm very fascinated with
this idea that in the short term most of
these businesses are doing fine.
>> In the long term they might go to zero,
but also in the short term they're not
really doing fine because actually if
you on a gap basis they're not making
much money. I guess it sort of makes
sense that they're all selling off right
now.
>> Yeah. I keep thinking, this is probably
a stretch, but I keep thinking back to
um that book bull jobs. Yeah, remember?
And like the argument there is a lot of
jobs exist not because like people are
doing anything specific, but because
they're like
>> providing some sort of social value in a
way. So for instance, like
>> you have a person who is essentially the
designated scapegoat for senior
management. And I keep thinking of you
know business is basically an ecosystem
of different players. So it might be
that in the new AI world the role of
software companies just kind of changes
like their social role changes and I
don't know what the price or the
valuation looks like on that.
>> It still feels like to me what do I
know? I have no I have I was going to
say something about how businesses were
going to buy. What do I know? Uh I have
no idea how businesses are going to buy
software in the software in the future.
I did think that was really helpful.
Like I really don't know anything about
how the software business works
generally. So I find that very helpful.
One other interesting thing though and
it may sort of speak to thinking about
this risk is just the idea that like
even high-end software is not that much
money, right? So if you have a
salesperson who's making $250,000,
what is $1,000 a year from Salesforce to
do their job? particularly and then also
given the fact that you know free and
open source software has existed for a
long time but still you know you want to
pay an implement for a company that like
manages etc. getting from like here to
there where okay AI really changes the
nature of software buying
>> does feel like you have to get into this
is going to be weird to tear but maybe
things are I think things are probably
are going to get really weird. Yeah, I
think that's that's a pretty good bet,
right? Like if you bet on weirdness, if
there is a weirdness index, someone
should build that
>> weirdness index.
>> That would be a pretty good investment.
>> Yeah.
>> All right. Shall we leave it there?
>> Let's leave it there.
>> This has been another episode of the Odd
Thoughts podcast. I'm Tracy Aloway. You
can follow me at Tracy Aloway.
>> And I'm Joe Weisenthal. You can follow
me at the stalwart. Follow our guest
Jared Sleeper. He's Jared Sleeper.
Follow our producers, Carmen Rodriguez
at Carmen, Dashel Bennett at Dashbot,
and Kaleb Brooks at Kaleb Brooks.
>> For more OddLots content, you can check
out our daily newsletter. You'll find
that at bloomberg.com/odlots.
>> And uh if you want to chat with fellow
listeners about all these topics,
including AI. Check out our Discord,
discord.ggods.
>> And if you enjoyed this conversation,
then please like or leave a comment on
the video, or better yet, subscribe.
>> Thanks for watching.